Mrs. Schwalger (New Zealand): New Zealand
voted in favour of resolution 2272 (2016) because of
the clear and pressing need for more robust action to
combat sexual exploitation and abuse. New Zealand
respects the sacrifice and commends the meaningful
contribution of the vast majority of United Nations
peacekeepers. The measures in this resolution support
the Secretary-General's efforts with respect to sexual
exploitation and abuse, in particular to address the
systemic failure represented by the ongoing allegations.

The past 10 years, and especially this past year, have
demonstrated that the status quo is neither working nor
acceptable. The Security Council has a responsibility
to act on sexual exploitation and abuse and address the
negative consequences of the peacekeeping operations
that we members of the Council mandate, including
to implement the standards we have all agreed. We
encourage all partners to work together going forward.
Only our close cooperation to implement zero tolerance
and build capacity, with a real investment of political
will, can make the difference that is so desperately
needed for the victims, United Nations peacekeeping,
and the credibility of the Organization.

