Mr. Shen Bo (China) (spoke in Chinese): United
Nations peacekeeping operations have made great
contributions to the maintenance of international peace
and security, but a very small number of peacekeepers
are suspected of acts of sexual exploitation and abuse,
acts that undermine the image and the reputation of
United Nations peacekeeping operations and the United
Nations as a whole. China supports Secretary-General
Ban ki-Moon and the Secretariat in adopting the zero-
tolerance policy, supports the international community
in taking comprehensive response measures and
supports the Council in playing a proper role in this
regard, including stepping up coordination with the
General Assembly and other United Nations bodies.

China therefore voted in favour of resolution 2272
(2016). The sexual exploitation and abuse problem
involves troop-contributing countries. The Council
should fully hear and heed the views of the troop-
contributing countries. We believe that the Security
Council should have had ample time for further
consultation to maximize our efforts to seek agreement
and forge consensus to the largest extent possible.

